# planning meeting
## 2019-06-20

### agenda 

- We are currently proposing a date in November 2019, probably should settle on a date (ideally not the first two weeks of November cause I am in Cambodia...)
- The event can be held at Bath, however, we need to liaise with Bath people regarding this. Previously Fiona Dickinson suggested that the Faculty of Science was happy to support with a room, etc.
- Need to have some level of direction of the content we want to develop. Previously we discussed starting a content library for chemical education, e.g. the subject matter could be really anything from chemistry.
- Does anyone have experience with the sort of shape a hackathon should take; in my head I envision some pre-event training (git, maybe basic python) for people to work on before hand, at the event the attendees would work on problems that interest them (we should have a list of problems to work on maybe) in groups, maybe with a group of "supervisors" to do a first pass code review (this would be beneficial for students of programming to work towards "best practice")...

### present 

- Ben Morgan (BJM)
- Natalie Fey (NF)
- Chris Adams (CA)
- Andrew McKinley (AM)
- Andrew McCluskey (ARM)

### apologies 

- Joao Malhado (JM)
- Fiona Dickinson (FD) 

### minutes

- Initially ARM and BJM introduced the proposal and the motivation behind it. 
    - This breaks down to, computing for chemistry is not computational chemistry; includes using programming for data analysis and as a tool to understand mathematical concepts. 
    - The aim of the proposal was to host a *hackathon* event at the University of Bath to begin to build up a library of content relevant to chemistry that using Python programming. 
    - An example of such content was developed by BJM and FD which is a Jupyter Notebook that may be used in the modelling of kinetics, showing how the steady state approximation is reached. 
    - This was presented in a first year undergraduate lecture at the University of Bath.
    - The pythoninchemistry webpages were also developed to allow for the advertisement of such materials, although there have not been a large amount of content developed. 
    - Any content that is developed *should* be content for learning chemistry **not** computing. 
    - BJM has the dream that in future pythoninchemistry.org would be a national set of resources for chemical education using python. 
    
- The proposal was funded by the RSC panel to the amount of Â£300, however the panel had some [questions](../questions.md). In particular, how would we continue to fund this endeavour was one that we didn't yet have an answer for.
    - AM and NF suggested that sources of funding would be RSC [outreach](https://www.rsc.org/awards-funding/funding/outreach-fund/) and [schools funding](https://www.rsc.org/Membership/Networking/InterestGroups/BMCS/education-support-group/educational-grants-scheme.asp). These are particularly relevant as the idea of coding as a basic skill is becoming more common. 
    - For the current event, FD had previously mention that the Bath Science Faculty may have an interest in matching the RSC funding. (NF - now confirmed?, see email 25/06/19)
    - AM said that Swansea would be able to cover travel for at least one attendee from Swansea. 
    - ARM suggested that James Grant (Bath Research Software Engineer with an interest in teaching) would possibly be able to facilitate connection with Microsoft. Although BJM worries we might be small fish for Microsoft. 
    - The [Bristol Institute of Learning and Teaching](http://www.bristol.ac.uk/bilt/general-and-information/funding-opportunities/) should be a useful source of future funding. 
    - While in this conversation we also discussed the involvement; should we aim to form a M4 Consortium for teaching using Python? David Willock and Andy Logsdial from Cardiff may be interested (NF mentioned). AM suggested interest from David Nutt at Reading. (NF: have spoken to Jon Essex from Southampton who'd be interested, keen to send some UG students, too).
    - It was agreed that the formation of a network might be the most important deliverable of the hackathon. 
    - It was agreed that the way to generate funding was a to have something to show for it. 
    - NF suggested looking to the RSC local section for additional funding, although AM mentioned that these budgets were not healthy. 
    - NF suggested looking to the SCI for funding. 
    - ARM thought there could be interest from the SSI (the project is open source), NF will mention to Christopher Woods at Bristol
    - ARM mentioned that he was looking to try and get future support from Diamond Light Source for teaching stuff, however, he felt he was still small fish.     

- The conversation then moved to aspects of the actual organisation of the hackathon event.
    - All attendees agreed that they had never organised a hackathon.
    - NF would put the group in touch with Peter from Fred Manby's group who has some experience with hackathon organisation. (NF: Peter.Bygrave@bristol.ac.uk, and he's happy to be contacted for his advice)
    - It was determined that under the current budget we would be able to host a total of about 15. However, with additional funding, that could be up to a maximum of 50. 
    - All parties agreed that academic attendees would be expected to cover their own attendance, with the funding we have obtained being saved to support student attendance. 
    - However, it was important to have many academics present at the event to ensure longevity. 
    - In order to be productive the attendees should be split into groups of 3-5, each of which should contain an "expert programmer" and someone with chemistry domain knowledge for the problem that the group want to work on. 
    - In order to allow this NF suggested that when signing up, the attendee should be able to "self-identify" as programmer, education enthusiast, etc. which would help to build the groups.
    - All agreed that it is **very** important that the majority of attendees are not programmers. 
    - ARM mentioned that we need to make sure that there would be enough programmers present. NF reckoned that she could source up to five, BJM and ARM reckoned that they may be able to source another five, if this amount at required. 
    - It was agreed that the date should be pushed by until the new year. The end of January was proposed by AM, all agreed this could in theory work. 
    - The event should aim to start at 10am (at the earliest) with the morning focused on the abstract of particular content (what will be made) before lunch, each group will be asked to present their plan. After lunch until about 3pm the groups will work on actually building something, and then share their results (and importantly what needs to happen next) with the group.
    - NF suggested that during the presentations the audience should be able to access a live document to give feedback to others. ARM suggests using [hackmd](hackmd.io) for this.
    - Bath and Bristol both happy to host. 
    - NF doesn't want to "steal" the project from Bath, ARM and BJM aren't too fussed. (NF: If Bath have committed extra funding, it should still be with you. Also, Southampton would be happy to coem to Bath)
    - Bristol may be easier for national attendees noted BJM. 
    - If the focus is on the M4 corridor Bath would be prefect. BJM suggested 0.01 in 1 South at Bath. 
    - Weekends are not family friendly, AM suggested a Wednesday, when sports allowed for easy room booking. 
    - ARM agreed to lead on web infrastructure necessary, getting some webpages to advertise the project and set up registration. 
    - The registration should allow the attendee to suggest topics that they would be interested in developing content for. 
    - All agreed that it was important the at least some of the attendees had available to them some material before the event. In particular git and basic Python. 
    
- We naturally entered into a conversation of things that we could work on during the hackathon (lots of ideas were suggeted)
    - Fred Manby has a nice QM code that has a Python layer that could be used for teaching QM, and he would be happy to help with integration. (NF: it's called [entos](https://chemrxiv.org/articles/entos_A_Quantum_Molecular_Simulation_Package/7762646))
    - Something like the Spartan labs (Bath has some) could be made into Python
    - Calculation of a particle in a box (AM has some stuff ready to go for that) 
    - All of these could be multi-level (black box, student builds the code), ARM mentioned different levels of pylj. 
    - ARM felt that the work done by Chloe (a project student of NF) might be useful as something to work on (content to help with Fred Manby's lectures). 
    - NF agreed to share Chloe's project report after marking finished. A [MyBinder resource](https://gke.mybinder.org/v2/gh/Clohastings/projectpython/master) is available, report available on request)
    - BJM said there was a lot of nice computational chemistry examples but lets harness from all of chemistry. 
    
- Advertising
    - While the majority of attendees will come from the partner institutes, we should advertise far and wide. 
    - CA is organising VICEPHEC19 at Bristol and asked for someone to advertise the event there. AM was keen. 
    - It was felt that writing a brief document to advertise the event to other academics would be nice. ARM agreed to write the first draft and share, AM was happy to work on this document. This document should point to an example, ideally BJM and FD's kinetics example. BJM will put this on the pythoninchemistry website (ARM will help). 
    - NF suggested using Twitter heavily to advertise and to source ideas for topics. 
    - NF asked if the VR Bristol crowd should be invited to give a demo, however both BJM and AM agreed this might distract from focus. 
   
### action items

- [ ] BJM to speak to James Grant about Microsoft interest 
- [ ] BJM to investigate hosting at Bath Chemistry in particular booking of 0.01 once a date is defined.  
- [ ] AM, NF, BJM to investigate a good time in January 2020 for event. (NF: I would prefer the w/c 20th Jan to the following one)
- [ ] AM to ask FD about Bath timing. 
- [ ] All to provide examples of chemistry education software/tools that they have developed or are aware of. 
- [x] NF to share Chloe's project report once the marking is complete. (https://gke.mybinder.org/v2/gh/Clohastings/projectpython/master)
- [x] AM to submit sort Oral Bite abstract to CA.
- [x] ARM to draft short brief advertising the event, and share with all. 
- [ ] BJM to put kinetics example on the pythoninchemistry webpage. 
- [ ] ARM to start on the webpage advertising the event and work out how registration will work (this will involve input from all).
- [ ] All should investigate resources that may be used/adapted as pre-requisites 
